Projects for Good
i am a community of developers, technologists and evangelists improving the security of software. The OWASP Foundation gives aspiring open source projects a platform to improve the security of software with:

Visibility: Our website gets more than six million visitors a year
Credibility: OWASP is well known in the AppSec community
Resources: Funding and Project Summits are available for qualifying Programs
Community: Our Conferences and Local Chapters connect Projects with users
OWASP Projects are a collection of related tasks that have a defined roadmap and team members. Our projects are open source and are built by our community of volunteers - people just like you! OWASP project leaders are responsible for defining the vision, roadmap, and tasks for the project. The project leader also promotes the project and builds the team. OWASP currently has over 100 active projects, and new project applications are submitted every week.

Code, software, reference material, documentation, and community all working to secure the world's software.

Projects gives members an opportunity to freely test theories and ideas with the professional advice and support of the OWASP community. Every project minimally has their own webpage, mailing list, and Slack Channel. Most projects maintain their content in our GitHub organization.

Who Should Start an OWASP Project?
Application Developers
Software Architects
Information Security Authors
Those who would like the support of a world wide professional community to develop or test an idea.
Project Guidance
You can find more information about project levels, promotion criteria, and best practices at the Project Committee pages.

OWASP Projects, the SDLC, and the Security Wayfinder
Thanks to the OWASP Integration Standards Project for mapping OWASP projects in a diagram of the Software Development LifeCycle. This resource should help you determine which projects fit into your SDLC.

Requirements
Design
Docs
Implementation
Guides
After N Iterations
Verification
Metrics
Training/
Education
Iterate
Culture Building & Process Maturing
Policy Gap Evaluation
Tools
Threat Modeling
Proactive Controls
Go SCP
Amass
Nettacker
OWTF
Dependency Track
Dependency Check
ESAPI
CSRFGuard
Glue
Dracon
Defect Dojo
ASVS
MASVS
Threat Dragon
Threat Modeling Talks
PyTM
Application Security Wayfinder
Security Champions Playbook
SAMM
Code Pulse
Operation
Mod Security CRS
Cornucopia
SecurityRAT
Top 10
Juice 
Shop
Security Shepherd
API Top 10
Mobile Top 10
WebGoat
PyGoat
Snakes & Ladders
WSTG
MSTG
SAMM
ASVS
MASVS
ASVS
MASVS
SKF
Brought to you by the Integration standards project
Linking requirements and guidance across standards through the Common Requirement Enumeration.
Dependencies
Wrong Secrets
CycloneDX
Coraza
Secure Headers
CheatSheet Series
Secure Headers
OpenCRE.org
Frameworks
Vulnerability
Management
Secure
Libraries
Guides
OWASP Project Inventory (370)
All OWASP tools, document, and code library projects are organized into the following categories:

Flagship Projects: The OWASP Flagship designation is given to projects that have demonstrated strategic value to OWASP and application security as a whole.
Production Projects: OWASP Production projects are production-ready projects.
Other Projects: The Lab and Incubator projects can be found here.

List of Projects by Level or Type

Flagship Projects 
OWASP Amass
An open source framework that helps information security professionals perform network mapping of attack surfaces and external asset discovery using open source intelligence gathering and reconnaissance techniques!

OWASP Application Security Verification Standard (ASVS)
The OWASP Application Security Verification Standard (ASVS) Project is a framework of security requirements that focus on defining the security controls required when designing, developing and testing modern web applications and web services.

OWASP Cheat Sheet Series
The OWASP Cheat Sheet Series project provides a set of concise good practice guides for application developers and defenders to follow.

OWASP CycloneDX (ECMA-424)
OWASP CycloneDX is a full-stack Bill of Materials (BOM) standard that provides advanced supply chain capabilities for cyber risk reduction.

OWASP Defectdojo
The leading open source application vulnerability management tool built for DevOps and continuous security integration.

OWASP Dependency-Check
Dependency-Check is a Software Composition Analysis (SCA) tool suite that identifies project dependencies and checks if there are any known, publicly disclosed, vulnerabilities.

OWASP Dependency-Track
Intelligent Component Analysis platform that allows organizations to identify and reduce risk in the software supply chain.

OWASP Juice Shop
Probably the most modern and sophisticated insecure web application for security trainings, awareness demos and CTFs. Also great voluntary guinea pig for your security tools and DevSecOps pipelines!

OWASP Mobile Application Security
The OWASP Mobile Application Security (MAS) project consists of a series of documents that establish a security standard for mobile apps and a comprehensive testing guide that covers the processes, techniques, and tools used during a mobile application security assessment, as well as an exhaustive set of test cases that enables testers to deliver consistent and complete results.

OWASP CRS
The OWASP CRS is a set of generic attack detection rules for use with ModSecurity or compatible web application firewalls. The CRS aims to protect web applications from a wide range of attacks, including the OWASP Top Ten, with a minimum of false alerts.

OWASP OWTF
Offensive Web Testing Framework (OWTF), is an OWASP+PTES focused try to unite great tools and make pen testing more efficient, written mostly in Python.

OWASP SAMM
A Software Assurance Maturity Model (SAMM) that provides an effective and measurable way for all types of organizations to analyse and improve their software security posture.

OWASP Security Shepherd
OWASP Security Shepherd is a web and mobile application security training platform. Security Shepherd has been designed to foster and improve security awareness among a varied skill-set demographic. The aim of this project is to take AppSec novices or experienced engineers and sharpen their penetration testing skillset to security expert status.

OWASP Top Ten
The OWASP Top 10 is the reference standard for the most critical web application security risks. Adopting the OWASP Top 10 is perhaps the most effective first step towards changing your software development culture focused on producing secure code.

OWASP Web Security Testing Guide
The Web Security Testing Guide (WSTG) Project produces the premier cybersecurity testing resource for web application developers and security professionals.

Production Projects 
OWASP API Security Project
More info soon...

OWASP Bug Logging Tool
OWASP BLT is a tool enabling internet users to report all kinds of issues they encounter, thereby improving internet security, with a unique feature of rewarding users for bug reporting and allowing companies to launch their own bug hunting programs, promoting responsible disclosure and fostering a safer online environment.

OWASP Coraza Web Application Firewall
OWASP Coraza is a golang enterprise-grade WAF framework compatible with Modsecurity and OWASP Core Ruleset.

OWASP CSRFGuard
OWASP CSRFGuard is a library that implements a variant of the synchronizer token pattern to mitigate the risk of Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) attacks.

OWASP ModSecurity
ModSecurity is the standard open-source web application firewall (WAF) engine.

OWASP SamuraiWTF
SamuraiWTF (Web Training Framework) is a collection of tools and training bundled into a platform to provide a lab environment and training on web application testing.

OWASP Secure Headers Project
Provides technical information about HTTP security headers.

OWASP WrongSecrets
Examples with how to not use secrets

Edit on GitHub
The OWASP® Foundation works to improve the security of software through its community-led open source software projects, hundreds of chapters worldwide, tens of thousands of members, and by hosting local and global conferences.
Important Links
Project Handbook
Start a New Project
Project Graduation Application
OWASP Github
All Project Leaders
Project Status
Project Committee
Google Summer of Code 2025
Upcoming OWASP Global Events
OWASP Global AppSec EU 2025
May 26-30, 2025
OWASP Global AppSec USA 2025 - Washington, DC
November 3-7, 2025
OWASP Global AppSec USA 2026 - San Francisco, CA
November 2-6, 2026
Spotlight: Heeler
image
Application security teams and developers don’t need more findings—they need actionable context to effectively shift left. Heeler puts application security teams in control by unifying code, runtime, business, and security context to operationalize shift-left efforts. By combining ASPM, static and runtime SCA, and runtime threat modeling, Heeler reduces vulnerability noise by 95% and ensures high-impact risks are caught before they reach production.

Corporate Supporters
image
image
image
image
image
image
image
image
image
Become a corporate supporter
      
PRIVACY SITEMAP CONTACT
OWASP, the OWASP logo, and Global AppSec are registered trademarks and AppSec Days, AppSec California, AppSec Cali, SnowFROC, OWASP Boston Application Security Conference, and LASCON are trademarks of the OWASP Foundation, Inc. Unless otherwise specified, all content on the site is Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike v4.0 and provided without warranty of service or accuracy. For more information, please refer to our General Disclaimer. OWASP does not endorse or recommend commercial products or services, allowing our community to remain vendor neutral with the collective wisdom of the best minds in software security worldwide. Copyright 2025, OWASP Foundation, Inc.
